# learning the react basics

## difference between using npm-react-app and vite@latest

1. package.json differences

- using **npx create-react-app** we get multiple additional dependencies like testing and web-vitals, which might not be required in the project initially
-

- using **npx create-react-app** provides us with scripts in the following manner:

```
"scripts": {
    "start": "react-scripts start",
    "build": "react-scripts build",
    "test": "react-scripts test",
    "eject": "react-scripts eject"
  },
```

- using **npm create vite@latest** provides us with almost zero extra loading on the application and hence is very fast.
  the scripts in vite look as follows:

```
"scripts": {
    "dev": "vite",
    "build": "vite build",
    "lint": "eslint . --ext js,jsx --report-unused-disable-directives --max-warnings 0",
    "preview": "vite preview"
  },
```

here, we can see the scripts dependencies on react-scripts at all times. to run the program we need to use npm run start, where the start script will be called and similarly for build and so on.

2. **vite app** does not come with the node modules, we need to install them on our own based on our requirements.
   node module is generated by using the depenedencies as reference mentioned in the _package.json_.

to install the node_modules in the vite app, we need to run the following command:

```
npm i
```

this will install the dependencies in the system to run the application locally.

3. In the _index.html_ file for **npx create-react-app** we do not have any script tag and yet we are able to connect the index.html with the index.js in src/ folder. HOW? this is happening because of the above **react-scripts** dependencies. it takes care of this injection of index.js file in the index.html file.

whereas in the vite app, we have the following configuration, hence getting the script attached right in the index html file.

```
<body>
    <div id="root"></div>
    <script type="module" src="/src/main.jsx"></script>
  </body>
```

> if we are returning any html from the js then we should name the file with jsx

3. Componenets that we create have some hard requirements in case we are using vite.

- first is to make sure that we are using jsx and not js extension for the files
- second is to use capital letter for the file name and its usage in the other files.
- BUT this is not mandatory in case of create-react-app

# creating our own react project from scratch

1. How react looks at things? React looks at everything as object and inside this object we need to provide what we need to create. The object should contain the information about the type of tag we want to create, the parameters and the text associated to those tags.
